---
title: "Gardening in July 2023"
description: "What happened in July 2023?"
date: 2023-09-01
image: "/images/default.jpg"
imageAlt:
categories:
  - Gardening
#tags:
draft: true
---

[< Back to the table of contents](index.md) | [Go to June](2023-06.md) | [Go to August >](2023-08.md)

## Compost making

I have 2 heaps at the moment from the garden and kitchen waste.

We had about on bucket of 5 liters each day the active heap.

### The oldest heap

Its content is transforming, having already decrease half in size. The weeds have disappeared and the texture is looking good.

I see a lot of the red worm [Charles Dowding](../../../tags/charles-dowding/) talked about.

### The active heap

I measure 42° c early July.

On mid-July, after a good rainfall after adding a 100 L of grass clipping mixed with a few cherry tree leaves donated by a neighbor, the temperature reached 48°c.

There is tons of life in the compost.

It is actually easy to make and, with a 100 L bin full of grass clipping each weak, I can keep the heap at the same level.

Each week, I use the mixing tool for a couple of minutes. If I had heap big like Charles's, I wouldn't ;)

## In the garden

### Protecting the plants for the sun

I installed a shading net above the raspberries, blackcurrants and goseberries.

It will provide shade on the hottest days, which we finally had with 4 days above 35° C in the shade.

I want to prevent the sun to litterally burn the plants...

### The trees

The apple and cherry trees are growing very well, putting on very nice branches and new leaves.

Aurélie is suggesting that we have someone helps us make them produce fruits.

I think we'll do that next spring.

The apricot tree is getting big, also growing taller, with neat and healthy branches.

The trees in pots are watered every day, and we will very likely plant of couple of them next winter in the new garden area, that replaced the former "guest house".

### The new garden area

I dug in May the area and now, I have been since June filling it up with compost.

In mid-July, I have got about 3 trailers-full to buy and we will be done.

Aurélie wants to plant trees there, but alos, she'd love some flowers.

### Vegetables

We have harvested 8.4 kilograms of potatoes,

- some grown from potatoes skin!
- some grown from diced pieces

We still have more plants, not yet ready to harvest, grown from potatoe skins.

The watermelons are spreading around, with some flowers. No fruits yet.

I think we won't have anything, unless it is very sunny and that it rains once a week.

The cucumbers are tall now (> 1.50 m), putting on new flowers everyday, but the cucumber fruits are not looking great, nor are they growing much...

### Irrigation

I installed 16 mm pipe in the northen part of the garden, to be able to water from the network water while we are away.

Runs of 20 min consumme about 300 liters of water.

I installed quite a few pipes around the garden to irrigate the plants, trees and vegetables which need watering.

It is still manual, since I have to open the valve in the basement.

I also put a few of valves here and there in the grid to control where the water would go through and which parts would not get irrigated, if necessary.
