---
title: 'Gardening in August 2023'
description: 'What happened in August 2023?'
date: 2023-09-01
image: '/images/default.jpg'
imageAlt:
categories:
  - Gardening
draft: true
---

## Quiet and dry

This month was a month off when we were away for 3 weeks and therefore.

Except from the watering of the squashes, trees, and other flowers and aromatics, we didn’t actively work in the garden.

Plus, we are going on a 3-week trip from mid-September to the first week of October, so no gardening planned for the fall.

The first thing we’ll do will be the garlic and board beans in November. Maybe not as early as last October.

## Back from vacation

We harvested 3.2 kg of curry squashes, the smallest harvest from the last 4 years from spontaneous squashes we didn’t plant.

Another couple of larger squashes are still growing, also spontaneously grown from last year’s compost. We will pick up those after our trip in September / October.

We had a small 200 gr cucumber. The lack of water prevented us from getting more.

Regarding the watermelons, we had 2 fruits, but since I planted them too late, they were not enough grown up before the big drought came in August.

So, even though we picked up 800 gr of "fruits", they didn’t provide any eatable flesh.

## Fruit trees

It seems that all the trees are doing quite well.

The apple tree that grew up from a seed (we guess), just where we pack our car, has really increased in size and the shaping we force on it this year has worked as expected.

<!-- Take a picture -->

The apricot tree near the mimosa is doing well and its trunk is bulking up. We will very likely ask someone to graft it with a productive variety in early spring.

The cherry tree in between the grape wines is doing well and so does the apple tree. Neither of them were affected from the severe drought so they have surely put on strong roots. Their green leaves in this end of summer are witnesses of good health.

Similarly, we should graft them next spring.

Their position will provide a great shade spot in a few years.

Once more, no kiwi fruit this year, but the kiwai trees are balancing the results: even the one planted the past winter has produced a few fruits. I think we’ll reach about half of kilograms, twice as much as last year.

Finally, the almond trees that grew out of the last year’s rich compost will probably grow into a full-fledged tree, also providing an area of shade well positioned.

It is one of my main focus this year: planting trees that will provide shade on the long-term.

## What is next

Nothing except weeding and waiting for the kiwai fruits to finish ripping.

I’m also covering again the pathways with cardboard and then woodchips before the trip in September.

For sure, the bindweed and couch grass had no difficulty to grow through the first woodchip layer… Not easy to get rid of them.
